and tomorrow do i want to be someone
that gets their feeling of being
connected and whole through a parasocial
relationship
or through a real-life relationship who
do i want to be
hello my twitch edition i'm assuming
this is addiction
it's tearing me apart hello i just want
to share with you my daily structure
struggles with my twitch and gaming
addiction since i was eight years old
i've been watching
how other people play video games from a
local tv show wow dude that's dope
i'm an introvert and i have social and
communication problems very shy etc and
now i'm 19.
i can literally watch twitch all day
long
i have my favorite streamers and in my
worst times i can feel pretty bad if i
miss a live oh interesting
it's like i'm missing something
important the bonds are too strong the
bonds that i don't have with my
irl friends i feel like all my social
needs are covered when i watch these
streamers talking to me
i love to be passive i don't really have
to talk to anyone at the
same time i feel surrounded by people i
don't like using the chat
i don't meet new people i know it's not
a healthy relation
the one i have with twitch i'm a
freelance and i work
from home i set up my own schedule and
if i have too much work i start to feel
really anxious
when i don't have time to watch streams
i stop working if necessary and miss my
deadlines
i don't like weekends because i i have
to make plans with irl people and i feel
like i'm losing time i could spend
watching my favorite streamer
um when i look back all the time spent
watching streams really
uh worth nothing but when i watch the
streams i feel really good
as you may think i feel pretty uh
depressed and
when not watching streams i'm losing
real friends and experiences
i have a huge lack of motivation for
anything not twitch related
i'm also unable to make friends on this
platform to get
something good out of it this is like
the third time i realized this is going
too far
i'm starting to a detox plan to switch
gears and get back on track again
i'm super anxious just thinking about it
if you have been in a similar situation
i'd love to hear what you did to get
better
thanks for reading okay all right so
this is a fantastic post
um you know i'm it's unfortunate that
this person is struggling this much but
there are a lot of really good things
here okay
props to you for making the post
right so like we've got to be careful
because when we feel like we're making a
mistake in life
our mind will do anything to convince us
that we're making a mistake in life
it'll try to keep you there so this is
tricky
but there's a part of this person's mind
that i would bet
money was like don't make this post it's
a waste of your time no one's gonna be
able to help you
you can figure it out on your own or if
you can't figure it out no one can
figure it out for you
don't bother there's the part of your
mind that says don't bother
so first thing that i want to commend
this person for is actually making the
post
because they're stepping outside of
their comfort zone they're asking for
help they're being a little bit
open-minded
they're noticing that this is a problem
they're accepting that's a problem
they're telling the whole internet that
it's a problem
they're owning it right that's the first
step
except that you have a problem so good
job op
a couple of other things to note okay
so second thing is like let's talk about
like psychology neuroscience and
development uh
cognitive development so this person has
been watching video games since the age
of eight and they're now like in their
late twenties right
so what this means is that the parts of
your brain that
enjoy social interaction are capable of
of social interaction
and like get satisfied from real life
interactions
are like kind of rusty like your brain
has evolved to get
social needs met through twitch so this
is going to sound kind of weird but
there is something that i see
unfortunately a lot is a psychiatrist
called death grip syndrome
which is when people masturbate for a
long period of time like
years and then when they actually have
sex for the first time they're not
actually
able to like achieve climax through
sexual intercourse
and it's because they've like physically
trained their body to
climax in a particular kind of
stimulation
and so it just takes time to like rewire
your neurons to get satisfied from this
other kind of pleasure
and the weird thing that i i've been
seeing is like that's not it's not just
physical it's just the example that i
use because it
seems to relate to people but our it can
be anything that our body acclimatizes
to right so if we're kind of thinking
about
you know even like my tolerance for
spicy foods if i grew up not eating
spicy foods it's going to be hard for me
to tolerate
um uh you know eating spicy foods
in that same way so your brain has
learned to
like receive social satisfaction from
twitch
so cognitively you've developed that way
you've developed with parasocial
relationships so they feel more
satisfying to you
now thousands of years from now people
may sort of philosophically debate or
even today
about whether online social
relationships are better or not better
maybe it's like a current judgment that
our society holds
i don't know but for now if you want to
engage more in the real world and you
place more value on that
recognize that it's going to take some
time for your brain to adapt
to real-world relationships okay so it's
just going to take some time
so put yourself out there go into each
of those social interactions
recognizing that this is going to be
harder for me i'm not going to enjoy it
as much
and it is one step towards the life that
i want to live
and that's key right so here's the big
thing to remember
whether things are easy or hard think
about your dharma what's my duty what am
i doing this for
so i'm doing this because on some level
i find these twitch relationships to be
insufficient
so today let's say your friends want to
make plans with you right so they're
calling you like hey do you want to hang
out on friday there's a part of you
that's like i'm going to miss the stream
so just think for a second pause for a
second and ask yourself
you know who do i want to be tomorrow
like am i going to miss the stream
absolutely am i going to have less fun
in real life absolutely
am i going to love being here and
watching the streamer live absolutely
am i going to feel connected and whole
by being on twitch
absolutely and tomorrow do i want to be
someone that gets their feeling of being
connected and whole
through a parasocial relationship or
through a real life relationship
who do i want to be it's not about what
you get
it's about what you want to be and as
you navigate that as you reflect on that
you'll start to gravitate towards real
life
the last thing to kind of consider is
that this person
says that they have a huge lack of
motivation so we're going to highlight a
couple of things in their text okay
so i feel pretty depressed i have a huge
lack of
motivation and for anything not twitch
related this is actually a great
sentence
because the last thing that you need to
do to really crack this
open is this feeling
i feel pretty bad if i miss a live
stream
why what is it that you feel like you're
missing
you know like and this is where i i
really i really encourage this person to
stop and really
think about what is it that they're
missing
by missing the stream and really like
understand because i suspect that
there's something else there
that we're um that
is like there's something under the
surface this this feels like a some scar
to me let me just read this again
i in my worst times i can feel pretty
bad if i miss something live
so i'd start by asking yourself the
question like what are you missing and
have you missed something live before
and what did you feel like because what
what this person
is is telling me here is that something
bad happened
that they missed live and so the reason
they need to watch is because they don't
want that to happen again
they don't want to miss out again this
is the hurt of missing out once
resurfacing so your brain is telling you
hey if you skip this stream
you're going to miss out again right so
like you got to be careful about where
that
what's missing what what do you lose by
by not watching something
so i start to feel anxious when i feel
like i won't have time to
to watch streams there it is again right
what are you anxious about what is it
that you're truly missing
i stop working if necessary and miss my
deadline so you're really getting
something out of this right what is it
that you're really getting
what is it that you're missing if you
don't watch the stream and and this also
like i i would i would ask yourself you
know what do you what are you
what's the hunger that's being fulfilled
by watching the stream
because this kind of goes back to this
idea that like you know you're getting
some
need met right so the reason that
behaviors are reinforced is because
they're doing something for us
so i would really think long and hard
about like what is this behavior doing
for me
what is it that i'm really missing and
don't don't listen to your logic your
logic is telling you oh you're not
missing anything they're gonna be a
thousand of other streams like oh
like you're stupid like don't worry
about missing it like there's nothing to
miss like it's empty
that's not gonna help right because if
you tell yourself that the emotional
need is like not
doesn't care about that logic it's going
to get its needs met
so the question is to really like ask
yourself and pay attention to what are
you missing
you know what's the cost of this why is
it that you don't want to pay that cost
when have you paid that cost before and
when did you
learn that streams are not missable
how did you discover that like this is
something that my life revolves around
and you have to be really authentic with
yourself and explore that
absolutely something that i think a
coach could help you with by the way
i mean is there something clinical here
can you see a therapist sure
but i i think we've just heard so many
bad stories in this community about
you know people going to see therapists
and them saying like i'm addicted to
twitch and the therapist is like
just watch less bro you know i'm not
trying to
i know there are a lot of therapists out
there who are getting wise real quick
but
it's the kind of thing where you know
someone made like i mean i have
colleagues that would
diagnose you with depression and start
you on an ssri and send you home
we've heard that story a thousand times
in this community i'm not saying that
you shouldn't by all means go get
evaluated because
there's other confounding factors right
maybe you do have depression
and so that's worth absolutely getting
checked out and at the same time i
really try to find someone
either yourself or someone else who can
help you kind of work through this stuff